---
eip: 7777
title: Standardized Time Locks
description: A standard for conveying the date upon which a time-locked system becomes unlocked
author: Rob Montgomery (@RobAnon), Joshua Weintraub (@jhweintraub)
discussions-to: 
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
created: 2023-06-05
requires: 165
---

## Abstract

This EIP defines a standardized method to communicate the date on which a time-locked system will become unlocked. This allows for the determination of maturities for a wide variety of asset classes and increases the ease with which these assets may be valued.

## Motivation

Time-locks are ubiquitous, yet no standard on how to determine the date upon which they unlock exists. Time-locked assets experience theta-decay, where the time remaining until they become unlocked dictates their value. Providing a universal standard to view what date they mature on allows for improved on-chain valuations of the rights to these illiquid assets, particularly useful in cases where the rights to these illiquid assets may be passed between owners through semi-liquid assets such as ERC-721s or ERC-1155s.  

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

All EIP-7777 Standardized Time Locks locks MUST implement [ERC-165](./eip-165.md) interface detection.


#
```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: CC0-1.0

pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

interface IERC7777 {

    /**
     * @dev Return the timestamp that the time lock specified by `id` unlocks at
     * @param id the identifier which describes a time lock
     */
    function getMaturity(bytes32 id)
        external
        view
        returns (uint256 maturity);

}
```

For singleton implementations on fungible assets, values passed to `id` SHOULD be ignored, and queries to such implementations should pass in `0x0` 

## Rationale

### Universal Maturities on Locked Assets

Lorem ipsum

### Valuation of Locked Assets via the Black-Scholes Model

Lorem ipsum too

## Backwards Compatibility

EIP-7777 seeks to be backwards compatible with existing time-locked assets, many of which can be retrofitted with a designated contract to determine the point at which their time locks release. 

## Reference Implementation

### Locked ERC-20 implementation
```



```

## Security Considerations

### Extendable Time Locks


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).
